Storage access activation reusability (#22)
privacycg/storage-access-headers: README.md

Browsers that do not support the proposed headers will still receive the appropriate `401 Unauthorized` response. However, browsers that do support the proposed headers are able to retry the fetch and can send the user's credentials, since the user has already given permission for this (by assumption).

### Retry with `reuse-for`

> Consider a Single-Page App (SPA) that authenticates with a third party then sends multiple requests to their APIs. Storage Access Headers (SAH) alone would require each request to be retried, effectively doubling the number of requests on page load. In the first `retry` response, however, the server can request the browser to make the storage activation reusable with the `reuse-for` header parameter. Subsequent requests to these URLs will have access to unpartitioned cookies for the lifetime of the document.

Author: That sounds better, thank you

> Consider a Single-Page App (SPA) that authenticates with a third party then sends multiple requests to their APIs. Naively, Storage Access Headers (SAH) would require each request to be retried, effectively doubling the number of requests on page load. In the first `retry` response, however, the server can request the browser to make the storage activation reusable with the `reuse-for` header parameter. Subsequent requests to these URLs will have access to unpartitioned cookies for the lifetime of the document.

Author: Good idea, thank you

### `reuse-for`

A `retry` header with `reuse-for` enables the embedding document to send subsequent requests to the server with unpartitioned cookies without going through the _`retry`_ flow again. Developers who enable the reuse of storage access activation should be aware of the associated risks, such as cross-site request forgery (CSRF) and [cross-site leaks](https://xsleaks.dev/), and only allowlist URLs which expect credentialed cross-site requests and handle them safely.

* Reusability will stay valid for the lifetime of the embedding document.

> * Only the `allowed-origin` specified in the response is able to reuse the activation.

Reviewer: Should we clarify what we mean here? E.g., `I.e., only subsequent requests whose initiator matches the 'allowed-origin' can benefit from the reusable activation.` or something like that.

* The URLs in the `reuse-for` parameter are resolved by [parsing](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-url-parser) them with the request’s URL as the [base URL](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-base-url). Example accepted values: "/bar", "bar", "/bar/", "./", "../../../etc/passwd", "/bar.html", "bar.js", "https://embeddee-origin.example/foo/bar". Note that "/bar" and "/bar/" are treated as different resources, even though some web servers treat them as the same.

> * The resolved URLs must be same-origin with the request’s URL.

Reviewer: What happens if they're cross-origin? Is only that URL ignored, or is the whole `reuse-for` list considered invalid and ignored?

Author: Good point, I would just ignore the cross-origin URLs. Updated the text, please take a look

* When matching a request's URL with a previously specified list of `reuse-for`, to activate storage access, the URL’s query parameters and the URL fragment are ignored.
* User Agents should ignore the `reuse-for` parameter when wildcards are used in the `allowed-origin` parameter.

> * User Agents should ignore the `reuse-for` parameter when `”null”` is used in the `allowed-origin` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* User Agents should ignore the `reuse-for` parameter when `"null"` is used in the `allowed-origin` parameter.
```

This proposal uses a new forbidden name for the `Sec-Fetch-Storage-Access` header to prevent programmatic modification of the header value. This is primarily for reasons of coherence, rather than security, but there is a security reason to make this choice. If a script could modify the value of the header, it could lie to a server about the state of the `storage-access` permission in the requesting context and indicate that the state is `active`, even if the requesting context has not opted in to using the permission grant. This could mislead the server into inferring that the request context is more trusted/safe than it actually is (e.g., perhaps the requesting context has intentionally _not_ opted into accessing its cross-site cookies because it cannot conclude it's safe to do so). This could lead the server to make different decisions than it would have if it had received the correct header value (`none` or `inactive`). Thus the value of this header ought to be trustworthy, so it ought to be up to the user agent to set it.

### `reuse-for`

> A `retry` header with `reuse-for` enables the embedding document to send subsequent requests to the server with unpartitioned cookies without going through the _`retry`_ flow again. Developers who enable the reuse of storage access activation should be aware of the associated risks, such as cross-site request forgery (CSRF) and [cross-site leaks](https://xsleaks.dev/), and only allowlist URLs which expect credentialed cross-site requests and handle them safely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `retry` header with `reuse-for` enables the embedded document to send subsequent requests to the server with unpartitioned cookies without going through the _`retry`_ flow again. Developers who enable the reuse of storage access activation should be aware of the associated risks, such as cross-site request forgery (CSRF) and [cross-site leaks](https://xsleaks.dev/), and only allowlist URLs which expect credentialed cross-site requests and handle them safely.
```

Do you mean "embedded" here? I read "embedding document" as referring to the top-level document (or something other than the innermost iframe, anyway). (Same comment for "embedding" below.)

Author: "embed" is probably not a good word here because for `retry` headers it's really the embedding document that's sending the request. For instance, to get an image. Should I just remove "embedding" entirely to avoid confusion?

Author: Maybe "_current_ document", like you suggested elsewhere?

* Reusability will stay valid for the lifetime of the embedding document.
* Only the `allowed-origin` specified in the response is able to reuse the activation. I.e., only subsequent requests whose initiator matches the `allowed-origin` can benefit from the reusable activation.
* The URLs in the `reuse-for` parameter are resolved by [parsing](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-url-parser) them with the request’s URL as the [base URL](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-base-url). Example accepted values: "/bar", "bar", "/bar/", "./", "../../../etc/passwd", "/bar.html", "bar.js", "https://embeddee-origin.example/foo/bar".
  * Note that "/bar" and "/bar/" are treated as different resources, even though some web servers treat them as the same.
* The resolved URLs must be same-origin with the request’s URL, cross-origin URLs are ignored. If a mixed list is provided, only the same-origin URLs are considered.

> * When matching a request's URL with a previously specified list of `reuse-for`, to activate storage access, the URL’s query parameters and the URL fragment are ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When matching a subsequent request's URL with a previously specified list of URLs from `reuse-for`, the request URL’s query parameters and fragment are ignored.
```

Subjective preferences here, but I think we can cut out some of these phrases for clarity.

> * User Agents should ignore the `reuse-for` parameter when wildcards are used in the `allowed-origin` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* User Agents should ignore the `reuse-for` parameter when the `allowed-origin` parameter is `*`.
```

IMO this is clearer since it shows exactly what we mean here.

> * User Agents should ignore the `reuse-for` parameter when `"null"` is used in the `allowed-origin` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* User Agents should ignore the `reuse-for` parameter when the `allowed-origin` parameter is `"null"`.
```

Nit: I think it's clearer to flip this around so that it describes the `allowed-origin` param, rather than describing `"null"`.

Therefore, CORS ought to be neither necessary nor sufficient for attaching unpartitioned cookies to a cross-site request. We will therefore design the unpartitioned-cookies-opt-in mechanism as a new thing, completely indepedent from CORS.

### Activation reusability

> The following designs were considered as alternatives to the `reuse-for` parameter, to make a storage access activation reusable across requests.

Reviewer: > The following designs were considered as alternatives to the `reuse-for` parameter,

It looks like some of these are different ways of defining the `reuse-for` parameter, rather than alternatives to the parameter itself. Maybe "alternative designs to allow reuse of activations", to be more general?

Author: Updated, please take a look

#### Sticky for destination origin

> One alternative is marking an activation “[sticky](https://github.com/privacycg/storage-access-headers/issues/6#issuecomment-1998826464)” for the entire origin of the request’s destination, using a header parameter like `sticky`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One alternative is marking an activation "[sticky](https://github.com/privacycg/storage-access-headers/issues/6#issuecomment-1998826464)" for the entire origin of the request’s destination, using a header parameter like `sticky`:
```

If the provided path is treated as a directory, user agents might disallow stickiness outside of the directory of the request’s destination. E.g. `/~bob/image.png` might not ask for a sticky activation for `/` or `/~alice/`.

The proposed solution uses a list of specific resources instead of a string that can be interpreted in different ways, to avoid unnecessary complexity and the potential risk of making an activation sticky for an entire directory.

#### Sticky for Entity

Alternatively, an enum could be provided for developers to decide whether they want the activation to be sticky for the entire origin, the URL of the request (ignoring the query parameters and URL fragment), or the directory.

We chose to go with a list of specific URLs instead, to avoid the potential risk of making an activation sticky for an entire directory or the origin, which could unintentionally activate storage access for endpoints owned by different developers. A list of URLs could also provide more flexibility than an enum.

> 

Reviewer: This is a stylistic thing, but this feels like it would be easier to read if it were a bulleted list (with sub-bullets for the explanations), rather than making a new section for each alternative.
